AND TO BEN WEDEMAN, IN SOUTHERN
LEBANON, THE SCALE OF THIS CALL
FOR EVACUATION BY THE IDF,
ESTIMATED TO BE MORE THAN A
MILLION PEOPLE.
WHAT'S THE PLAUSIBILITY OF THIS
ACTUALLY HAPPENING?
>> Reporter: IT'S GOING TO BE
VERY DIFFICULT, FIRST OF ALL,
GIVEN THE FACT THAT THE SHEER
NUMBER OF PEOPLE, PERHAPS
1.1 MILLION PEOPLE A SITUATION
WHERE THERE'S VERY LITTLE FUEL,
THE NUMBER OF PEOPLE, WHERE ARE
THEY GOING TO GO, WHERE ARE THEY
GOING TO BE HOUSED?
THE U.N. AND OTHER INTERNATIONAL
ORGANIZATIONS IN GAZA ARE SAYING
IT'S SIMPLY NOT POSSIBLE GIVEN
THE NUMBER OF PEOPLE AND THE
CIRCUMSTANCES, THERE'S AN ACTIVE
WAR.
PEOPLE ARE AFRAID TO JUST MOVE
IN THE STREET, SO MOVING
1.1 MILLION PEOPLE FROM NORTHERN
GAZA TO SOUTHERN PART IS
SOMETHING THAT'S HARD TO IMAGINE
BEING DONE ON PRACTICAL TERMS.
NOW, I'VE BEEN IN GAZA BEFORE,
FOR INSTANCE, IN 2014 THE
ISRAELIS ORDERED THE EVACUATION
OF CIVILIANS FROM NORTHERN
COMMUNITIES, ONES NEAR THE
ISRAELI BORDER.
FOR THE MOST PART PEOPLE WERE
ABLE TO DO THAT BECAUSE YOU
COULD GET OUT BY WALKING, YOU
COULD GET OUT BY RIDING ON A
DONKEY CART, PERHAPS, IF YOU
COULD GET A CAR RIDE OUT.
BUT THAT WAS RELATIVELY SMALL
NUMBERS COMPARED TO GAZA CITY.
GAZA CITY IS HUGE.
WHERE ARE YOU GOING TO PUT ALL
THESE PEOPLE WHEN YOU MOVE THEM
SOUTH WHEN NONE OF THE RELIEF
SUPPLIES, TENTS, FOOD, WATER,
MEDICINE HAVE BEEN ALLOWED INTO
THE GAZA STRIP.
IT'S VERY DIFFICULT TO IMAGINE
HOW THIS COULD POSSIBLY BE DONE.
AND HAMAS IS CALLING ON PEOPLE
TO STAY IN THEIR HOMES, TO STAY
PUT.
SO, THIS IS GOING TO BE VERY
DIFFICULT, AND CERTAINLY IF
PEOPLE DO NOT OR CANNOT EVACUATE
THOSE AREAS, THE ISRAELIS ARE
CALLING THEM TO LEAVE, AND THIS
GROUND OFFENSIVE GOES AHEAD,
PROBABILITY IS, IT WILL BE A
BLOOD BATH.
>> BEN WEDEMAN JOINING US IN
SOUTHERN LEBANON, BEN, THANK YOU
VERY MUCH.
AND JOINING US NOW TO GET MORE
OF THESE QUESTIONS ANSWERED, I
DO, F SPOKESMAN LIEUTENANT
COLONEL PETER LEARNER, COLONEL,
THANK YOU FOR YOUR TIME AGAIN
THIS MORNING AS ALWAYS.
I WANT TO ASK YOU FOR
CONFIRMATION ON WHAT HAMAS IS
CLAIMING, THAT 13 ISRAELI
PRISONERS TAKEN HOSTAGE DURING
THE WEEKEND'S ATTACK, THEY ARE
CLAIMING THEY HAVE BEEN KILLED
IN GAZA BY ISRAELI BOMBINGS.
HAS THE IDF CONFIRMED THOSE
DEATHS?
?
I CAN'T CONFIRM THOSE, AND WE
HAVE TO BE CAUTIOUS WITH
EVERYTHING HAMAS IS SAYING.
AND THEIR PROPAGANDA EFFORTS ARE
EXTENSIVE.
THIS MORNING WE ARE CONTINUING
OUR ACTIVITIES AGAINST THE HAMAS
TERRORIST ORGANIZATION, AND
THEIR INFRASTRUCTURE THROUGHOUT
THE GAZA STRIP, SPECIFICALLY WE
ARE TARGETING SPECIAL OPERATIONS
CAPABILITIES, WE'VE TAKEN UP
THEIR DRONE CAPABILITIES.
THEY HAD ATTACK DRONES THAT WERE
POSEN AND PREPARED TO BE
LAUNCHED AT ISRAEL BUT WE'VE
TAKEN SOME OF THOSE OUT AND
WE'RE CONTINUING OUR EFFORT TO
MAKE SURE HAMAS CAN NEVER, EVER
THREATEN ISRAEL AGAIN AND THEY
CANNOT BE PERMITTED TO DO SO.
>> YOU DO NOT HAVE CONFIRMATION
OF WHAT HAMAS IS CLAIMING THERE.
DO YOU HAVE ANY UPDATE ON THE
CONDITION OF ALL OF THE
HOSTAGES, ANY OF THEM THAT ARE
BEING HELD?
>> WELL, TO MY KNOWLEDGE THEY'VE
NOT RELEASED ANY INFORMATION
EXCEPT FOR DISINFORMATION, AND
WE'RE LOOKING INTO IT VERY
CAUTIOUSLY.
THE SITUATION IS AS SUCH, WE
BELIEVE THAT HAMAS ARE
RESPONSIBILITY FOR THE
WELL-BEING OF ALL OF THE
HOSTAGES THAT THEY'VE TAKEN, AND
THEY NEED TO RETURN THEM
IMMEDIATELY, THEY NEED TO
RELEASE THEM TO ISRAEL.
AND THEY WILL PAY THE
CONSEQUENCES FOR THEIR ACTIONS.
THE SITUATION ON THE GROUND,
OBVIOUSLY, IS A COMPLICATED ONE,
AND WE'RE TAKING OPERATING IN
CAUTION WITH REGARD TO THE
HOSTAGE SITUATION AND OF COURSE
IT IS INFLUENCING OUR
OPERATIONAL GAME PLAN.
>> HOW IS IT INFLUENCING IT?
IS IT CAUSING THE IDF NOT TO
TAKE CERTAIN ACTIONS AT THIS
MOMENT, THAT IT WOULD OTHERWISE
TAKE?
>> I OBVIOUSLY WON'T ELABORATE
ON OPERATIONAL CONSIDERATIONS,
BUT DEFINITELY IT IS PART OF THE
PLANNING PROCESS, AND WE DO NEED
TO TAKE THAT INTO CONSIDERATION.
>> OKAY.
>> OUR PRIORITY IS TO RETURN
THEM HOME AS SOON AS POSSIBLE.
>> THE ORDER FROM RECOMMENDATION
FROM ISRAEL FOR ABOUT
1.1 MILLION PEOPLE ACCORDING TO
THE U.N. TO MOVE OUT OF NORTHERN
GAZA, THERE HAVE BEEN SOME
REPORTS OF A TIME FRAME PUT ON
THAT.
IS THERE A TIME FRAME THAT THE
IDF HAS PUT ON THAT?
>> SO, THE ORDERS IS TO EVACUATE
IMMEDIATELY, AND I WOULD HIGHLY
RECOMMEND THAT PEOPLE ADHERE TO
THAT INSTRUCTION BECAUSE THE
MILITARY IS DETERMINED TO TAKE
OUT HAMAS'S CAPABILITIES, THEY
OPERATE FROM A STRONGHOLD WITHIN
GAZA AND GAZA CITY AND THEY CAN
NO LONGER BE UTILIZE THAT AREA.
IN ORDER TO MINIMIZE AND
MITIGATE CIVILIAN CASUALTIES,
THIS IS WHAT YOU'VE BEEN ASKING
US OVER THE LAST COUPLE OF DAYS,
WHAT ABOUT THE HUMANITARIAN
CORRIDOR, THIS IS PART OF THE
HUMANITARIAN EFFORT SO THAT
PEOPLE WILL NOT BE INFLUENCED
MORE THAN THEY HAVE TO BE IN
THIS CONFLICT.
HAMAS, UNFORTUNATELY IS CALLING
ON THE OTHER HAND, NO, PEOPLE,
DO NOT EVACUATE, STAY AND
SACRIFICE YOURSELF.
HAMAS HAS NO REGARD FOR HUMAN
LIFE, ISRAELI OR PALESTINIAN.
THEY WILL SACRIFICE EVERYBODY AS
THEY ARE PROVING TIME AND TIME
AGAIN.
>> THE QUESTION IS, IS THERE A
SAFE WINDOW FOR ALL OF THOSE
PEOPLE, A MILLION PLUS PEOPLE TO
EVACUATE TO THE SOUTH?
THE UNITED NATIONS SAYS IT IS,
QUOTE, IMPOSSIBLE FOR SUCH A
MOVEMENT TO TAKE PLACE WITHOUT
DEVASTATING HUMANITARIAN
CONSEQUENCES, AS THESE AIR
STRIKES CONTINUE.
>> HERE'S WHAT WE DO.
WHEN WE SAW A THREAT ON THE
BORDER WITH GAZA WE EVACUATED
THE PEOPLE FROM THE BORDER FROM
GAZA.
WHAT IS HAMAS DOING?
THEY'RE NOT DOING ANYTHING.
S
SACRIFICING THEM, STAY PUT.
THE IDF IS COMING.
WE ARE OPERATING EXTENSIVELY.
WHEN THEY PLACE THEIR OFFENSIVE
DRONES, STRIKE DRONES, SUICIDE
DRONES ON THE ROOFS OF HOUSES,
THEY ARE JEOPARDIZING EVERYBODY
IN THAT HOUSE, THEY DON'T CARE.
SO WE'RE TELLING PEOPLE,
EVACUATE THIS AREA, BECAUSE WE
ARE OPERATING, WE PLAN ON
BROADENING THE SCOPE OF OUR
OPERATIONS IN ORDER TO ACHIEVE
OUR GOAL.
>> COLONEL, I'M GOING TO MOVE
ON, IS THERE A WINDOW OF SAFETY.
THE U.N. HAS SAID 24 HOURS, FOR
EXAMPLE, IS THERE A WINDOW OF
SAFETY WHEN THIS EVACUATION --
>> I WOULD HIGHLY RECOMMEND THAT
THE EVACUATION TAKES PLACE
IMMEDIATELY.
THE WINDOW OF -- THE 24 HOURS
THAT WE'RE TALKING ABOUT IS THE
HIGHLY RECOMMENDATION, BUT IT
COULD GO ON BEYOND THAT BUT I
WOULD SAY THE INSTRUCTION IS GET
UP, AND GET OUT OF THE NORTH OF
GAZA AND GAZA CITY AND MOVE TO
THE SOUTH.
>> AND JUST TO BE CLEAR, THOUGH,
MOVE TO THE SOUTH, BUT THERE IS
STILL NO CROSSING OUT OF GAZA
FOR THEM?
>> YEAH, WE'RE DIRECTING THEM
EXACTLY WHERE WE EXPECT THEM NOT
TO BE WHERE PEOPLE IN ORDER TO
SAFEGUARD THEIR OWN LIVES SHOULD
MOVE FROM.
NOT TO GO INTO EGYPT OR ANYTHING
LIKE THAT, BUT THEY SHOULD NOT
BE IN THE AREA WHICH WE
DESIGNATED AND HAVE TOLD THEM
SPECIFICALLY.
THIS IS LIKE A FOREWARNING OF
WHERE WE'RE OPERATING,
FOREWARNING OF WHERE IT'S GOING
TO BE MORE EXTENSIVE COMBAT,
WHERE THERE ARE GOING TO BE MORE
EXTENSIVE STRIKES, YOU KNOW,
THIS IS THE WHOLE IDEA OF TRYING
TO MAKE SAFEGUARD PEOPLE'S
LIVES.
THE INSTRUCTION TO LEAVE IS TO
SAVE PEOPLE'S LIVES SO THEY
SHOULD LEAVE FROM THE NORTH OF
GAZA, FROM GAZA CITY AND GO TO
THE SOUTH OF THE CITY, OF THE
GAZA WADI, AND THEY SHOULD --
THEY SHOULD SET UP THERE.
IF THEY STAY, THEY ARE
JEOPARDIZING THEMSELVES, THIS IS
WHAT I'M TRYING TO SAY.
I KNOW THAT THERE ARE
CONSIDERATIONS, THERE ARE
PROBLEMS, OF COURSE, I WOULD SAY
HAMAS NEED TO DEAL WITH ALL OF
THOSE PROBLEMS, OF HOW TO SHIP
PEOPLE FROM THE NORTH TO THE
SOUTH, LIKE WE DID, WE TOOK
PEOPLE FROM THEIR HOUSES IN THE
SOUTH OF ISRAEL AND WE MOVED
THEM ELSEWHERE.
AND HAMAS SHOULD HAVE THE
RESPONSIBILITY, RATHER THAN
FAILING THE PEOPLE OF GAZA, THEY
SHOULD HELP THE PEOPLE OF GAZA.
>> COLONEL, I THINK THE QUESTION
BECOMES, FOR HOW LONG CAN THEY
REMAIN IN THE SOUTH?
WILL AN ORDER LIKE ISRAEL HAS
GIVEN IN THE NORTH THEN COME TO
THEM IN THE SOUTH?
IF THERE IS NO CROSSING THAT
OPENS.
>> OUR OPERATION IS FOCUSED
TOWARDS HAMAS, NOT TO THE PEOPLE
OF GAZA, BECAUSE THE PEOPLE OF
GAZA ARE NOT OUR ENEMY, THE
HAMAS TERRORIST ORGANIZATION HAS
BUTCHERED OVER A THOUSAND, 200
PEOPLE, AND ISRAEL CANNOT BE
PERMITTED TO GOVERN THE GAZA
STRIP AND USE IT AS A STAGING
GROUND AGAINST ISRAEL.
WHEN WE RECOMMEND TO THE PEOPLE
OF GAZA GO TO THE SOUTH, YOU
SHOULD LISTEN, GO TO THE SOUTH,
DO NOT STAY IN GAZA CITY, DO NOT
STAY IN THE NORTH, AND YES,
EVERYBODY SHOULD LISTEN TO THAT
RECOMMENDATION.